So image upload, how do we implement it?
Well let's start with creating a new post and there, I want to add a new button, let's say below the title
but it's really up to you
where you position this of course
and when we click this button, a file picker should open.
And in that file picker, we should then be able to pick an image file,
we probably also want to see a preview of the image here then
and I of course also want to be able to then hit save post and upload that image, store that image
somewhere on our server and store a path to the image, so that we know where it's stored in the database
because we will not store the image itself in the database,
it would really be too big for that,
that would be too inefficient,
instead we'll just store the path to the image as it is stored on our server in the database.
So that is what we want to do,
let's start simple and let's add this file picker then. For that, I will go to my post create component
here
and I want to add a new button and I'll add it below the title, let's say, the position is of course really
up to you
and you could add a mat-form-field here but I don't really need one.
Instead I'll just add a div so that we have a block level element and there, I'll add a button which I'll
give the mat-button directive,
so that we turn this into a Angular material button
and I'll say pick image.
If we now save this and ngServe is already up and running, we can go back and we see that pick image
button here which we can click.
Now right now, you can see I get the validation errors when I click this button because by default, it tries
to submit the form. To change this, I'll set the type of this button to button, the alternative and the
default would be submit and it would then try to submit the form with button,
we should no longer get this behavior.
Now we can click the button without submitting.
Now that's a nice first step
but of course we're not entirely there yet.
First of all, I want to change
that look slightly, I'll turn this into a mat-stroked button, so that it will have an outline like this
but of course the real thing that is missing is the functionality to open that file picker dialog.
Now we do actually have a default input which we can use of type file.
When we add this, we get this file picker here which already has a button actually
and where we then can select files and choose them.
Now that picker looks a bit ugly and it doesn't have the default material styling,
so I want to hide this picker, not remove it from the DOM it should be there,
it should just be hidden and instead whenever we click that button, I want to simulate a click event
on that picker
so that we use that default picker functionality
and we store the picked file in that input
but we don't actually see that ugly interface, that's the idea.
Now to make that happen,
what I'll do is I'll first of all hide that input.
We can do that in the CSS file of this component, there I will select the input with the attribute
selector,
so where type equals file and I will then set the visibility to hidden.
If we do that, then the file picker is gone but it's still part of the DOM
as you can see if you inspect the elements, here it is,
so that still works
and now we can proxy our click on the button onto this input. To do that,
I'll give this input a local reference with a hashtag, file picker,
you can name this however you want
and then here on the button, I'll add a click listener
and on this click listener, I'll simply execute file picker click.
So I'll execute this click method on the file picker.
And now with that if we save that, I can click pick image and open the default file picker.
So now we successfully proxy that and we can pick a file and it will be stored.
The next step is to register this input as an input of our form
and for this, I'll actually switch to the reactive approach for creating and handling that form
since that gives me more capabilities, more features and I also want to add my own validator to validate
that we only upload image files for example and that is an advanced functionality which is way easier
to implement if we use the reactive forms approach.
So let's switch to this in the next lecture.